up:: [[Artifacts MOC 💠]]
tags:: #
dates:: 2025-


Awesome! I really have the feeling here that you are capable of unfolding the way I think and see life. You have also brought up my next insight. Player types, energy types, dynamics between players and or groups, possibilities to spot the right players to form your power house. I will give you now some notes I took while I was watching "The last dance". I tried to illuminate Phil Jackson the coach, Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen, and Dennis Rodman They had such an immsense synergy going on, more like a symbiosis.

**James Worthy: "I'm walking off the floor after a two-and-a-half hour practice, drenched in sweat and tired but Micheal pushed me back for a 1 on 1 to see who was better. He wanted to see where his game was. I was better than he was, for about 2 weeks." He wanted to learn. He wanted to grow quickly. From month to month, from game to game, he was soaking up information. Once he got something and added it to the raw talent that he already had, it was explosive to see.** Jordan From the first day in practice, my mentality was whoever is the team leader on this team, I'm going after him. And I'm not doing it with my voice because I had no voice. I had no status. I have to do it with the way I play. **B.J. Armstrong** - "Starting with that season, I felt Michael never played basketball anymore. He just figured out how to win the game. He knew how to _steer momentum_, he knew how to get guys going. He was just _playing a different game_ than the rest of us"

Dennis Rodmann: He learned after 2-3 years in the league what he could do best: **Rebound and play defense.** He learned how to perfect that and spent weeks of time late night in the gym until 4am in the morning, where the ball would bounce of the rim so he can predict the trajectory of the ball in order to be able to get the rebound. From raw talent to playing a few years until reaching the level of being a professional. From professional to world class and being on of the best. This takes a lot of effort, hard fucking work and discipline over a long period of time. 2025-01-25 He learned to play his part to perfection. **Phil:** "One part of him wants to be on this team, and the other wants to be autonomous" [[Phil Jackson]] and Dennis had a special relationship and bond between them. Both had this Native-American connection. Phil said: "In the Native-American tradition, Dennis would be a [[heyoka]], a backward-walking person. Some people were different and you're the [[heyoka]] in this tribe" See, he uses the word _"tribe"_ here which I find interesting because Phil tried to make this Team a close family that thinks as one unit. And everybody has their own character of course...and you need the fearless leader [Micheal], the right hand [Pippen], and the rebel...[Dennis] Phil was his inspiration. He looked after him and gave him the room and space to live out his character. Phil knew how to handle his personalities on the team... which made him a very special coach. He also brought native American rituals and Sen Buddhism into the culture, because he wanted to condition everyone on the team to be one and play as one unit. High potential for a concept. [[The Phil Jackson Concept]] The Phil Jackson Concept would be about how a true leader can spot and identify the different energy types and direct them on a higher picture, because the leader needs to respect efficiency but also the individual potentiality of each player and how they come together and if they create a system that works and produces outcomes that can be further used down the road. Only if the leader will fully understand each player type, he can be the conductor that knows exactly which frequency needs to be played and how has play the instrument at the right time. He is like the brain, the initiator that conducts the energy to where it is needed.